# INTRODUCTION

#### The goal is to do real-time sentiment analysis on bitcoin by fetching data through twitter and store the result in MongoDB.



## Python packages:

#### TextBlob to do simple sentiment analysis on tweets

#### Tweepy is a popular package in Python for interacting with the Twitter API.

## Data Processing Engine:

#### Spark: we will spark to process the Streaming

## Data Streaming Pipeline:

#### Kafka is a distributed event store and stream-processing platform

## Storage

#### MongoDB: Here will we use MongoDB as the output sink.




# STEPS TO GET STARTED WITH PROJECT

## STARTING WITH KAFKA

1.Apache Kafka can be started using ZooKeeper.
 Run the following commands in order to start all services in the correct order:
 #### $ bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh config/zookeeper.properties
 
 
2.Open another terminal session and run:
  #### $ bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/server.properties
 
3.Kafka is a distributed event streaming platform that lets you read, write, store, and process events (also called records or messages in the documentation) across     many machines.Example events are payment transactions, geolocation updates from mobile phones, shipping orders, sensor measurements from IoT devices or medical         equipment, and much more. These events are organized and stored in topics. Very simplified, a topic is similar to a folder in a filesystem, and the events are the     files in that folder.
Open another terminal session and run:
  #### bin/kafka-topics.sh --create --topic bitcoin --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
  
4.A Kafka client communicates with the Kafka brokers via the network for writing (or reading) events. Once received, the brokers will store the events in a durable and   fault-tolerant manner for as long as you need—even forever.

  Run the console producer client to write a few tweets into your topic:
   #### $ bin/kafka-console-producer.sh --topic bitcoin --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
    
    
 5.Open another terminal session and run the console consumer client to read the tweets generated by API:
   #### $ bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh --topic bitcoin --from-beginning --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
   
   
   
 ## STARTING WITH SPARK
 
 1.Open New Terminal and write command to get started with spark.
   #### spark-shell


## STARTING WITH PROGRAM

1.Run the KafkaProducer.py file under which the api object will be generated.Authentication handler with the access key try to identify the user and get the tweets in the raw form.If any error occurs the connection api will reinstiated.Api will help in getting the tweets from the twitter server which are latest and will send to kafkaproducer over the localhost : 9092.Kafka will queue the tweets.Only this tweets will be fetched those have relation with bitcoin.

2.Secondly run KafkaConsumer.py file which will fetch the data over localhost server : 9092 and decode it as the data being send is in the form of raw.After the interval of 5 seconds the data will be send back to kafka.Maximum size of the record is set to 128 bytes and max tweets over the interval of 5 seconds is set to 100.After every 5 seconds a new fetch request will be send.

3.Creating the sparksession under the variable of spark which is common entry point for spark to use data processing engine functionality.Spark configuration are set in two ways one being directly producing output to console and secondly a connection is being established between mongoDB server which wil act as a output sink.

4.As the tweets are generated it might having many irregularities which might create ruckus for our sentiment analysis therefore the data cleaning is much needed.Tweets read from the kafka consumer with the help of spark streaming datacleaning.py will remove numbers, hashtag, special characters etc and return pure string type tweet making the analysis much easier.

5.For determining sentiment about the topic of particular user we wil we using subjectivity and polarity.

Polarity refers to the strength of an opinion. It could be positive or negative. If something has a strong positive feeling or emotion associated with it, such as admiration, trust, love; this will indeed have a certain orientation towards all other aspects of that object’s existence. The same goes for negative polarities. A good example would be the following: ‘I don’t think I’ll buy this item because my previous experience with a similar item wasn’t so good.’ That will have a negative polarity.

The strength of positive and negative polarities can vary depending on the situation, but they are still considered to be strongly positive or negative. What about weak sentiment? It is common for users to express their emotions using words like ‘quite’ or ‘slightly’. Sentiment analysis tools would treat them as slightly positive or negative. What matters most here is what people feel about something else through non-verbal communication. The use of these words might indicate how much they value an object in a subjective way or not; therefore, subjectivity comes into play here as well.


Subjectivity refers to the degree to which a person is personally involved in an object. What matters the most here are personal connections and individual experiences with that object, which may or may not differ from someone else’s point of view. For example: ‘I’m very happy with my new smartphone because it has the highest performance available on the market.’ Similarly to polarity, strong subjectivity may be negative or positive. The statement here is clearly subjective because the user is actually talking about his experience and how he feels about an object.

Sentiment analysis tools must be able to distinguish between both polarity and subjectivity in order to analyze users’ opinions correctly. An opinion can have a high degree of subjectivity if it’s expressed as a personal experience, whereas a low degree may indicate someone else’s viewpoint on something else. Sentiments can also have different levels of polarity throughout different ways of communication – e-mails, chats or other posts might be either strongly positive, negative or; in some other cases, they might have even a neutral polarity.


